I miss him.

I guess that is a weird thing to say, given that I can’t say that I really knew him.  He was my neighbor for about 13 years. I can’t be sure exactly when we closed on the house; I guess I could look it up.  We were so happy to have finally found the place that we weren’t really concerned about our neighbors, at first. 

On our left we had the Bryants. I believe that was their name, because someone saw the value in decopaging that name on the vinyl siding.  I tried to introduce ourselves a few times. Naomi and I were taking walks up and down our slow road regularly - partially to get our asses out of the house in Covid times and also to wave at anyone we saw. We saw them plenty; they ignored us just as much. It was like we didn’t exist to them. I guess I get that. You didn’t move to an area like Hannity for its booming social club. I grew up ‘country’. Naomi did not. She thought that it was very rude. People would never stop to talk, but simultaneously when they did it would be interminable. She wanted small talk. What even is that? I would do a lot of the talking when anyone did want to, and it was your standard 15-30 minute process. Nothing important. The price of real estate nearby. The weather. How many chickens do you have, and how you plan to not raise them again. 

 I thought it was just setting clear neighborly boundaries. I made a note of the property line, and left it alone. 

Alternate days we’d walk the other direction.  I could see the layout of his land. It seemed pretty smart to me. The house was set back from the road a good bit. He had built in a few grape rows as a makeshift privacy fence. In full summer the house, situated a bit down the slope, wasn’t even visible.  

We were not prepared for our first winter. The previous owner was an extremely kind man. His name was Neil. We had been left with a woodstove, a pile of wood, an oil burning heating system, half a tank of oil, a kerosene burner, and absolutely no idea what to do wIth sny of them.  Especially not when we lost power.

 This was tricky, but not a huge problem for the first night. The power, which also ran the oil burner’s pump, didn’t crap out until about 3am, and we figured it would be back before dawn. Naomi and I huddled in our comforter and waited for dawn. 

By 6:30 am we knew we were in trouble. It was cold.

I knew how to build a fire. Like… a campfire. What was I supposed to do with a wood stove? I could build a fire in it, I suppose, but,that was on my list for next year. I wasn’t ready for this. I got a pile of nicely split maple, and I had no idea how to make this house warm. 

By 3:00 pm we were considering how we could get out. The driveway was filled in about a foot and a half of snow. I could probably shovel for two or three hours, and we could get to the road… which hadn’t been plowed yet. 

He didn’t knock. I remember that clearly. It’s not like he trod up like jolly old Saint Nick and asked if he could be our Christmas saviour. He just plowed out our driveway. That’s it. I mean, rather forcefully, in a truck that could be heard before it was seen. In retrospect, I’d rather the giant pile of snow he pushed aside with his truck wasn’t exactly where I was planning saffron crocuses, but I don’t really think I get to complain about things like that.

Naomi and I were watching this, astoundingly confused. A strange man was pushing snow around our property, but not, apparently, to our detriment. Under other circumstances I’d probably be offended. In this case, I was relieved, but also not sure who this was, or why he was doing what he was doing? The door of the truck opened.

I was intimidated. This person had a short cropped black and gray beard full of ice. How long had he been out in this winter mess? I was scared to leave the house. He waited.  The wind blew, and he just wasn’t affected by it. After a bit, I went outside. He wasn’t a large man. I don’t have a better way of describing it. He didn’t say hello. He didn’t yell at the house, or ring a bell, or anything. He just patiently waited. It was always his way of saying, “Hello”. I eventually got my shit together and walked out to greet the guy who obviously just did me a huge favor. 

I was in a bathrobe and moccasins. He was in workboots, several layers of clothes, and one of those canvas work shells that look like they were meant for arctic explorers, or something. My masculinity wasn’t threatened at all. Or, I guess not that much. I hated him. 

At this point I still didn’t realize he lived next door. I’d never seen the man, just grape vines and the allusion that there might be a house back behind the vines. 

The first word he ever spoke to me was, “Refrigerator”.

I did not know how to respond to this. 

Was that his name? That seemed unlikely. I thought I might introduce myself to this snow-plowing, winter warrior. “Hi, thanks for, uh, the plow - whoa that sounds weird, sorry. Ted.”, Yes. I am very good at introductions, thank you. 

“Ted.” he repeated, as if that sealed my name in his memory permanently. Who does that? I need to be introduced to people four or five times before I can remember they exist at all.  

“Power can be off for a few days. You can always pack the fridge with snow to keep things cold, but if you want, just plug into the generator for a bit and skip the bullshit.”

My god was it awful that this person was coming to my rescue? I was much more concerned about heat than how we could keep our food cold. Was he purposefully reminding me how weak I was? 

 The implication of that sentiment spun off several new thoughts about why was he concerned about keeping our food cold? Was this a ploy to gain entry to the house? Who was this guy? What does he know that I don’t. Do people just wander around rural roads looking for rubes like me to murder and steal from during snowstorm blackouts? 

I must be missing something. Honestly, at that time, about country living - pretty much everything. Fuck, I was missing everything. I’m sure I hesitated more than appropriate before my next question. 

“Uh. This may sound stupid. Can you show me how to use a wood stove?”.  

I mean. I wasn’t really sure what to do. We were in a bad spot. No power meant no phones after the batteries died. We could have started the car to charge the phone and had the amazing power of twitter until the car ran out of gas. Here was a guy who seemingly already did us one favor. It seemed reasonable to ask another. And he seemed like a guy who knew how a wood burning stove worked. Even if he wasn’t that talkable.

I don’t think he was older than me. A few years more or less. I would definitely not call him fatherly. 

The look of derision I got will never leave me. It was like he immediately knew how ill prepared I was for the next decade of my life. That I was a child playing with dynamite, and he communicated it with his eyebrows. He grunted. My best guess is that it was an affirmative grunt. 



“You got firewood?”, If my answer was no he might magically produce a few logs… because he could. Neil, the previous owner, had been kind enough to leave half a cord of wood. In my wisdom, I had brought some in through the cellar door convinced I’d “figure it out”, if I had to. I had no idea what to do with it.

That was my first lesson. My neighbor didn’t teach like, a, well, like a teacher.  He just showed you once.. I missed the first few steps of how he set the fire and demonstrated the chimney draw. I basically had to get back to the internet and youtube that, later when the power came on again. I was too embarrassed to ask for him to repeat himself. There were not many words at all to be fair. He did manage to convey what not to do, and show me the basics. 


The next  I heard, “I’m next door. Turkey season is March.” and he left. He took his extension cord, and was gone. There was no response to, “What do I owe ya?”, “Thank you so much, can I get you a beer after all this?”, “Is this sort of black out normal up here?”. Nothing. Nothing nothing nothing. 

I then realized several things simultaneously. I never actually got his name. 

-----------

 

